---
layout: publication
title: Automatic Co-Design of Aerial Robots Using a Graph Grammar 
show_on_homepage: false
publication: IEEE IROS 2022
publication_link: /assets/files/Automatic_Co-Design_of_Aerial_Robots_Using_a_Graph_Grammar.pdf
authors: Allan Zhao, Tao Du, Jie Xu, Josie Hughes, Juan Salazar, Pingchuan Ma, Wei Wang, Daniela Rus, and Wojciech Matusik
featured_image: /assets/images/Automatic_Co-Design_of_Aerial_Robots_Using_a_Graph_Grammar.jpg
acknowlegement: This work is supported by Defense Advanced Research Projects
  Agency (DARPA) grant No. FA8750-20-C-0075.
date: 2022-10-23T00:00:00Z
---
Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) have broad ap-
plications including disaster response, transportation, photogra-
phy, and mapping. A significant bottleneck in the development
of UAVs is the limited availability of automatic tools for task-
specific co-design of a UAV’s shape and controller. The devel-
opment of such tools is particularly challenging as UAVs can
take many forms, including fixed-wing planes, radial copters,
and hybrid topologies, with each class of topology showing
different advantages. In this work, we present a computational
design pipeline for UAVs based on a graph grammar that can
search across a wide range of topologies. Graphs generated by
the grammar encode different topologies and component selec-
tions, while continuous parameters encode the dimensions and
properties of each component. We further augment the shape
representation with deformation cages, which allow expressing
a variety of wing shapes. Each UAV design is associated with an
LQR controller with tunable continuous parameters. To search
over this complex discrete and continuous design space, we
develop a hybrid algorithm that combines discrete graph search
strategies and gradient-based continuous optimization methods
using a differentiable UAV simulator. We evaluate our pipeline
on a set of simulated flight tasks requiring dynamic motions,
showing that it discovers novel UAV designs that outperform
canonical UAVs typically made by engineers.
